.TH IS-MY-CODE-GREAT 1 "August 2025" "is-my-code-great 0.9.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
is-my-code-great \- Test code verification tool

NAME
    is-my-code-great - Test code verification tool

SYNOPSIS
    is-my-code-great [OPTIONS] [DIRECTORY]

DESCRIPTION
    is-my-code-great tool to verify arbitrary aspects about test code.

    By default, it analyzes Flutter/Dart projects, but is designed to be extensible to other frameworks (such as C#) in the future. The tool can auto-detect the framework based on files in the directory, or you can specify it explicitly.

OPTIONS

    -h, --help
        Show this help message and exit.

    -d, --detailed
        Tells the script to output a detailed report (html).

    -f, --framework FRAMEWORK
        Specify the framework to analyze (e.g., dart, csharp). If not provided, the tool will attempt to auto-detect based on project files.

    -b, --base BRANCH
        Specify the base branch for git comparison. Implies a git-based analysis.
        Using this makes -g not applicable.
        
    -c, --current BRANCH
        Specify the current branch for git comparison. Implies a git-based analysis.
        Using this makes -g not applicable.

    -g, --use-git-diff
        Tells the script to executing using the difference between branches using the default branches.
        To specify branches use -c for current branch and/or -b for base branch.

    -v, --verbose
        Enable verbose output.

    -p, --parseable
        Output results in a machine-readable format (key=value pairs) instead of the default human-readable format.
        This is primarily used for automated testing and validation.

    DIRECTORY
        The path to the project directory to analyze. Defaults to the current directory if not specified.

VALIDATIONS
    big-test-files (SEVERITY: HIGH)
        Detects test functions or methods that are longer than 15 lines.
        Long tests can be a sign of poor test design, as they may be testing too many things at once.
        It is recommended to keep tests short and focused on a single behavior or functionality.
        Might be a sign that we are missing some refactoring in the test code.

    single-test-per-file (SEVERITY: CRITICAL)
        Counts files that contain exactly one test function or method.
        Having only one test in a file can indicate that we are missing tests, as tests are complementary to each other.

    expect-on-keys (SEVERITY: HIGH)
        Counts the number of expect statements that use a key-based finder (e.g., find.byKey). 
        There's a BEEP that describes why this is not recommended, but in short:
            - Using expect on keys in tests can lead to brittle tests, as it relies on the implementation details of the code under test.
            - In short, we could replace a widget with another one that has the same keys, but different values and the test would still pass, even though the behavior of the widget has changed.

    pump-and-settle-without-duration (SEVERITY: LOW)
        Counts occurrences of tester.pumpAndSettle() without a duration argument. 
        It is recommended to use a duration to increase performance.

    pump-without-duration (SEVERITY: LOW)
        Counts occurrences of tester.pump() without a duration argument. 
        It is recommended to use a duration to increase performance.

    verifies (SEVERITY: LOW)
        Counts the number of times a method call is checked in the tests. 
        This type of expectation in tests makes the tests rely on the implementation details of the code under test, which can lead to brittle tests.
        It is better to use expectations on the state of the system after the method call, rather than checking that a specific method was called.

    widgets-predicate (SEVERITY: LOW)
        Counts the number of times find.byWidgetPredicate is used in tests. This can make it very hard to understand why a test is failing, as the predicate can be complex and not easily readable.
        It much better to retrieve the widget we want to test, then use expect on its properties, rather than using expect on a predicate.

    expects-in-middle (SEVERITY: LOW)
        Counts the number of times there's expect calls before another actions. 
        This is a clear indicator that the test is testing multiple things. Another reason for this might be the lack of trust on what the test is testing.
        e.g. an expect to find a key before tapping a key is a double check. tester.tap already tests this.

EXAMPLES
    Analyze the current directory (auto-detect framework):
        is-my-code-great

    Analyze a Dart project in a specific directory:
        is-my-code-great -f dart /path/to/project

    Analyze a C# project (future support):
        is-my-code-great -f csharp /path/to/project

TESTING
    Test Structure:
        test/
        ├── validate_results.sh          # Main validation script
        └── <language>/
            └── expected_results.sh      # Expected validation counts for each language

    Running Tests:
        ./test/validate_results.sh <language>

        Example:
            ./test/validate_results.sh dart

    The validation script:
        • Runs analysis with --parseable flag on examples/<language>/ directory
        • Compares actual results against expected counts in test/<language>/expected_results.sh
        • Reports PASS/FAIL for each validation rule
        • Exits with code 0 on success, 1 on failure

    Expected Results Format:
        Expected results are stored as key:value pairs in a simple text format:
            validation-key:expected-count

        Example:
            big-test-files:1
            expect-on-keys:3
            expects-in-middle:7

    CI/CD Integration:
        Includes GitHub Actions workflows that automatically run validation tests on pull requests and
        comment failures directly on the PR for immediate feedback.

AUTHOR
    Sérgio Ferreira

CONTRIBUTORS
    Miguel Teixeira
    Dinis Pimpão

SEE ALSO
    For more information, see the README.md in the project repository.
